


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
> # Algorithm
> ## 443.[StringCompression](https://leetcode.com/problems/string-compression/description/)
> ### problem description
	> Given an array of characters, compress it  [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm).
>The length after compression must always be smaller than or equal to the original array.
>Every element of the array should be a  **character**  (not int) of length 1.
>After you are done  **modifying the input array  [in-place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm)**, return the new length of the array.
>**Follow up:**  
>Could you solve it using only O(1) extra space?


```java
class Solution {
    public int compress(char[] chars) {
        int start = 0, end = 0, pre = 0;
        int count1 = 0;
        int count2  = 0;
        while(end < chars.length){
            if(chars[start] == chars[end]){
                end++;
            }else {
                if(end - start == 1){
                    chars[pre++] = chars[start];
                    count2++;
                    start = end;
                   
                }else {
                    count1 = end - start;
                    String str1 = Integer.toString(count1);
                    count2 += Integer.toString(count1).length();
                    count2++;
                    int index = 0;
                    chars[pre++] = chars[start];
                    while(index < str1.length()){
                        chars[pre++] = str1.charAt(index);
                        index++;
                    }
                    start = end;
                }
            }
        }
        if(end - start > 1) {
            String str2 = Integer.toString(end - start);
            chars[pre++] = chars[start];
            int index2 = 0;
            while(index2 < str2.length()){
                chars[pre++] = str2.charAt(index2);
                index2++;
            }
            count2 += Integer.toString(end - start).length();
        }else{
            chars[pre++] = chars[start];
        }
        count2++;  
        for (int i = pre; i < chars.length;i++){
            chars[i] = '\0';
        }
        return  count2;
    }
}
```
## solution process
- <font size=3>define start, end index to compute the length of every character , pre index  is used to modify the character</font>
- when chars[start] = chars[end], move end index to next; when chars[start] != chars[end],to compute the length of character. if length == 1, only set chars[pre] = chars[start], and move pre index to next; if length bigger than 1, tranform the length to String, and to fill the string after the pre index
- when break from the loop, should to compute the last character
- in the end, also to set the number of the slot after pre index to '\0', in order to achieve the goal of compressing the chars
- when i solve this problem, i find two special test cast:
- >1 ['a', 'b', 'c']
-  >2 ['a', 'a', 'a', 'a', 'b', 'a']
- <b>solution: 5ms,  beats 99.85%

# Review
<b>mainly focus on reading hao cheng's blog and column about functional programming, special in Decorator. this is my conlucsion<b>
- <font size=3>the first feature of functional programming: staless,and immutable. the essence of the item staless, how to understand? it is the key point before have a deep understanding of functional programming.for example, if a function try to change the global value, , it would be regraded as having state. in the word of functional programming, the function only can change the value which is inputed by params, and can not define variabels int the function body. int this moment, you could recall that so many people prefere to using the function such as map, filter, reduce to operate the set (list, set, map), because of not using the loop and defining the local variables.</font>
-  <font size=3>another is "describe what to do, rather than how to do it". hearing it for many time, but not to understand what it means.that time, i have more understanding of it. from my point of view, taking the example of function map, you need not define the local varible i from 0 to the length of list, rather than, you only to describe the x as the element of the list, and plus it map(lambda x: x + 1, [1,23]). another example if recursion. you should solve the recursion problem, you need to assume the smaller scale complete in your brain, and on the basis of it , to do greate scale problem. fabonacci problem. you need to compute f(n), you first assume f(n-1) and f(n-2) complete, and compute f(n) = f(n-1) + f(n-2). it is a very small example.i use the recursive thinkig most in the tree data structure</font>
- the last is Decorator. the decorated function is inputed as a param,which is equal to the call function in process programming. the wrapper function is defined in the interio which is regard as true fuction which is aimed to define in process programming. </font>
``` python
 def fun_A(fun_B):
	 def wrapper():                  
		 func_B
	 return wrapper
```
```java
	public void fun_d(){
		fun_B
		}
```
- in python code, fun_B is decorated, which is equal to fun_B in java code. in python the programatic meaning ofcode wrapper function is equal to func_d in java code.

 


